README.md, before:

# Ready release go :rocket:

This plugin can be executed on every push to your release branch (e.g. main) and will create a new release pull-request with all of your custom adjustments like an updated changelog as preparation for the next release. After you have merged the "release"-pull-request with all your desired changes, a new release / tag will be created for you.

## Workflow

1. Setup ready-release-go on your repository by adding a config file and a workflow file
1. On every push to your default branch a pull-request will be created and updated
1. You can review the pull-request and merge it when you are ready
1. The plugin will create a new release

## Interal workflow

- get latest release => tag
- get all commits since commit of last tag
- get all prs of those commits (if they have a pr associated)
- get all labels of those prs
- get next version based on labels of PRs
- get changelog based on labels of PRs

## Roadmap

- [x] Automatically create release pull-request
- [x] Automatically update release pull-request
- [x] Create a release / tag after "release"-pull-request got merged
- [ ] Support more forges: (Gitea, Gitlab, ...)
- [x] Support first release (no previous tags)
- [ ] Support defining next version manually
- [ ] Handle -rc versions

## Credits

This plugin is heavily inspired by [release-drafter](https://github.com/release-drafter/release-drafter) and [shipjs](https://github.com/algolia/shipjs). Thanks for the great work! Compared to the mentioned tools `ready-release-go` is not requiring a npm package and can be used with any kind of programming language, changelog tool and commit style.

Commit message:

Allow to release as RC (#43)

README.md, after:

# Ready release go :rocket:

This plugin can be executed on every push to your release branch (e.g. main) and will create a new release pull-request with all of your custom adjustments like an updated changelog as preparation for the next release. After you have merged the "release"-pull-request with all your desired changes, a new release / tag will be created for you.

## Workflow

1. Setup ready-release-go on your repository by adding a config file and a workflow file
1. On every push to your default branch a pull-request will be created and updated
1. You can review the pull-request and merge it when you are ready
1. The plugin will create a new release

## Internal workflow

- get latest release => tag
- get all commits since commit of last tag
- get all prs of those commits (if they have a pr associated)
- get all labels of those prs
- get next version based on labels of PRs
- get changelog based on labels of PRs

## Roadmap

- [x] Automatically create release pull-request
- [x] Automatically update release pull-request
- [x] Create a release / tag after "release"-pull-request got merged
- [x] Handle -rc versions
- [x] Support first release (no previous tags)
- [x] Support defining next version manually (can be done by changing the version on the release pull-request title / commit message)
- [ ] Support more forges:
  - [ ] Gitea
  - [ ] Gitlab

## Credits

This plugin is heavily inspired by [release-drafter](https://github.com/release-drafter/release-drafter) and [shipjs](https://github.com/algolia/shipjs). Thanks for the great work! Compared to the mentioned tools `ready-release-go` is not requiring a npm package and can be used with any kind of programming language, changelog tool and commit style.
